# Priced out: Factors influencing contemporary Dutch house prices

# Research motivation
Due to the ongoing Dutch housing shortage and increasing prices, it becomes harder for residents to buy their first house. 80% of adolescents looking to purchase their first house are in severe doubt about whether they will ever be able to buy a house. Especially for single households, this insecurity reaches high levels. It is estimated that single starters with a modal income (€38.000,-) can only get a mortgage worth €150.000,-, whereas the average house in the cheaper segment is priced twice this amount (BBNVARA, 2023). 
The purpose of this project is to get an insight in the prices of houses and their characteristics. The research aims to create a profile of the most important factors that influence the house prices. A multivariate linear regression model is built to estimate house prices based on their characteristics. In addition, it could help starters to compare the price of a house that they are targeting to the mean price of houses with similar characteristics.

# Data retrieval
For this project, data from Dutch housing platform Funda was used. The data was retrieved using a programmed web bot by B. Lusse and shows all houses with corresponding information that were for sale through Funda between 08/01/2022 and 08/03/2022. More information about the scraping details can be found by following this link. In addition tot he scraped data, geographic information was retrieved from OpenDataSoft in order to connect data about the abstract locations of houses to the respective provinces and coordinates. 
